Ashley R. Logsdon, PhD, CSW
Air Quality Data Warehouse

This database stores Atmospheric, Gaseous Pollutant, Greenhouse Gas, and Particulate hourly historical and forecast data loaded into a PostgreSQL database hosted in Supabase.

The schema is normalized to approximately Third Normal Form by:
•	Separating entities into related tables
•	Avoiding repeated data
ER Diagram

Database Overview
This database contains five tables: 
•	Particulates & AQI 
•	Gaseous pollutants 
•	Atmospheric/radiation 
•	Daily Summary
Entry Relationship Summary
Table	Purpose
Particulates & AQI 	Air Quality Index and Particulate Matter metrics
Gaseous pollutants 	Gaseous pollutants and greenhouse gases metrics
Atmospheric/radiation 	Atmospheric metrics and radiation
Daily Summary	Bridge table connecting metrics

Table Documentation
1. Particulates & AQI
Purpose
Stores the daily and historical United States Air Quality Index and their descriptions as well as particulate matter standardized by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from the Open-Meteo API. 
Example
AQI 125 = Unhealthy for Sensitive Groups
PM10 4 = Satisfactory Air Quality
Table Structure
Column Name	Data Type	Key	Description
Time	TIMESTAMP	Primary Key	Date and time of data entry 
pm10	NUMERIC(7, 2)   		EPA measurement
us_aqi          	SMALLINT		EPA measurement
us_aqi_category	aqi_category		Description of US AQI 


2. Gaseous_pollutants
Purpose 
Stores daily and historical gaseous pollutants from the Open-Meteo API
Gaseous Pollutants Data Includs: 
•	Carbon Monoxide
•	Nitrogen Dioxide
•	Sulphur Dioxide
•	Carbon Dioxide
•	Ozone
Table Structure
Column Name	Data Type	Key	Description
time	TIMESTAMP	Primary Key	Date and time of data entry 
carbon_monoxide	NUMERIC(7, 2)   		EPA measurement
nitrogen_dioxide	NUMERIC(7, 2)   		EPA measurement
sulphur_dioxide	NUMERIC(7, 2)   		EPA measurement
carbon_dioxide	NUMERIC(7, 2)   		EPA measurement
ozone	NUMERIC(7, 2)		EPA measurement

3. Atmospheric
Purpose 
Stores daily and historical UV Index, dust, and optical depth from the Open-Meteo API
Greenhouse Gases Data Includs: 
•	UV Index
•	Aerosol Optical Depth
•	Dust
Table Structure
Column Name	Data Type	Key	Description
time	TIMESTAMP	Primary Key	Date and time of data entry 
uv_index	NUMERIC(4, 1)   		EPA measurement
aerosol_optical_depth   	NUMERIC(6, 4)   		EPA measurement
dust	NUMERIC(7, 2)		EPA measurement


4. Daily Summary
Purpose 
The daily summary table provides the user with a summary of the average and the max value for each variable in each table. 
Daily Summary Data Includs: 
•	time
•	summary_id
•	location_id
•	summary_date
Relationships
Summary Date is the date the report is created and not the date included in the time
Time - One-to-many 
Data Sources
All data is sourced from the Open-Meteo API and downloaded into a CSV file. 
•	This API includes 2 months of historical data and 5 days of forecast data
•	All gasses, API, PMs, and atmospheric measurements follow the United States Environmental Protection Agency standards. 


